Does public speaking make you nervous?
What if that public speaking is
happening virtually on a platform such
as Zoom? Even Zoom or virtual
presentations are a form of public
speaking. And in this video, I am going
to give you seven public speaking tips
that are specific to virtual meetings.
And some of these may be things you've
never even thought of. If you're giving
a virtual presentation on a platform
like Zoom, the first thing you should do
is ensure the tech is working
seamlessly.
Have you made sure you've tested your
microphone and your camera? I've done
this a number of times where I have a
great podcast mic, but then I get
through the meeting and I realize it was
my internal laptop mic that was the one
that was defaulted and the audience
didn't get the benefit of great sound.
Have you tested those things? Have you
tested if you're going to share your
screen, where do you go to share your
screen? Are you showing videos? Do you
know how to share the sound? anything
you plan to do in your presentation. Any
interactive modes, maybe you want to run
a poll. Do you know where to go to to
run a poll? All of these things should
be tested beforehand. If you have access
to Zoom, set up a test Zoom meeting so
you can practice. If you don't, ask
whoever is the host of the meeting. If
you can set up a preall to run through
some of these things. It doesn't matter
if you're giving a presentation in
person or virtually. You need to be
prepared and ensure you know the
functionality so that you come across as
a pro. An important factor when it comes
to speaking virtually on a platform like
Zoom is to ensure your lighting is
really great. And the best cheapest
option to do this is to have a window,
an outside window in front of you so
that the sunlight or the general
daylight is coming in and lighting up
your face. One of the most common
mistakes people make is they have a
window behind them and that is horrible
for lighting because the light's coming
this way and it often creates almost a
silhouette effect where people can't see
your face clearly. Here is an example of
the lighting setup that I have at my
in-home studio. And you can see that I
have two lights that are pointing toward
me. And there are umbrellas on them
which help soften the light. So if you
really want to level up your lighting
game, you can consider having studio
lights, but then do something to soften
those lights so they don't create harsh
shadows behind you, such as a soft box
or umbrellas. Many people like to use
AirPods on virtual calls, but if you are
the one speaking or presenting, I'm
going to tell you now, get rid of those
things. They do not help the audio at
all. They are horrible for audio. And
the next time you're on a virtual call
with somebody speaking with the AirPods
as the default mic, listen carefully and
I guarantee you'll know what I mean.
Instead, you are better off with just an
internal laptop mic in most cases if the
laptop is somewhat new. But ideally, you
want to have an external mic. You don't
need a professional podcast mic like
this. Something like a Yeti Blue can
work really well as a USB mic, but have
something other than AirPods. Honestly,
anything's better than AirPods. They are
horrible for audio. And it's an
important tip. If you're leading a
meeting, audio is so important. Don't
use those AirPods. Eye contact is an
important factor when it comes to public
speaking. And that's no different for a
virtual presentation. But instead of
looking around the room and making eye
contact with many different people
sitting in different spots on a virtual
meeting, your eye contact is in one
place and you simultaneously make eye
contact with the entire audience. And
that might seem obvious, but what many
speakers, especially amateur speakers,
do when they're leading a Zoom call, is
they like to look at the faces. And so
if I'm pretending my laptop camera is up
here and people's faces are down below
on the screen, many people are often
looking down at those faces. But that's
not eye contact. If anything, you're
just looking at my forehead right now.
You want to ensure that you periodically
look up at the camera because when I
look here, I am creating eye contact,
maintaining eye contact with the
audience. When my eyes are down here,
I'm not. Business professionals,
especially those in the corporate world,
love to use virtual or blurred
backgrounds.
And I'm going to push back and say I
don't think it's a good idea. There's
been some research done that indicates
on a subconscious level, there's this
little layer of distrust you create with
your audience when they can't see what's
behind you. And it's maybe not even
something that they'll think about, but
why risk that little layer of distrust?
And virtual backgrounds, even at the
best of times, are a little bit clunky.
If you have to leave, it looks like you
magically disappeared into the image
that's behind you. Often there's like a
green screen effect where if you want to
show somebody what's on your phone, then
it turns into the virtual background.
It's in my mind unprofessional. I think
you're much better off to try to set up
a space where you have a clean
background. You don't have to have fancy
shelves and everything like that set up,
but just have a background, maybe a nice
piece of art on the wall, something that
looks nice for the audience. Don't have
it messy behind you. Obviously, that
doesn't look good. But if you have the
luxury of having a little space where it
can be just a clean background, not
asking for a lot here, that is going to
be a better situation than using a
virtual or a blurred out background
because you won't lose the audience's
trust. Have you ever thought about
standing up when doing a virtual
presentation or perhaps creating video
content at your desk?
Not everyone has a sitst stand desk and
in some instances they're quite
expensive.
But often you can get a little creative.
Maybe it's stacking some boxes and
binders and putting your laptop at the
top of it. But standing is not a bad
idea because when we're standing up, we
have a different level of energy than
when we're sitting down. And for years
and years, I would always create video
content while sitting at my desk. But
the reality is, it doesn't match the
energy that I'm now able to do with
creating a standup situation. And this
was a student of mine. I was running a
speaker accelerator and they asked me,
Wade, why don't you stand up at your
desk? And it was a great point. And so
now I have the situation thankfully with
the sitst stand that every meeting I'm
on I stand and then for every in between
time I sit down. So when I'm doing
different work checking emails I'm sat
but then I will put my de desk in a
standup mode for the actual meetings and
my camera is always set up for me to be
standing. Again, not everyone has the
ability to create this type of of
environment, but if you do, I challenge
you. Try standing for meetings for a
month. See if you notice a difference in
the energy level and how good the
quality of your meetings is, especially
if you're the one presenting. My final
tip for leading a virtual meeting on a
platform such as Zoom is to not ask
generic questions that you just lob out
to the audience. How's everyone doing?
Crickets. Either nobody's going to
respond or the same person is always
going to be the one who speaks up and
nobody really likes that either. You as
the leader of the meeting or the
presenter of the call should be the one
driving the interaction.
Ask specific questions. Greg, what do
you think about the second point that
was brought up? Do you have any
questions? Any feedback? Sarah, what is
one thing you learned from today's
presentation?
By calling people out and asking them
for their input, it's going to encourage
more people to actually volunteer and
raise their hands, but also eliminates
that dead air of simply lobbing out
questions that aren't really intended
for any specific person. I hope these
tips on how to create great virtual
presentations and things to think about
has been helpful for you. I am always
striving to create content that is going
to help you become a more confident
speaker. You have a story. You have a
presentation to give. It's simply my job
to guide you to how you can do that as
effective as possible. If this video
content was helpful, subscribe to my
channel. It is the best way and it's
free for you to support what I do. and
check out this video that is popping up
right now that YouTube is recommending
for